TI Sitara AM335x Series Chips
=============================

TI's Sitara AM335x chips are a series of ARM Cortex-A8 single-core processors.

[Manufacturer product page](http://www.ti.com/lsds/ti/arm/sitara_arm_cortex_a_processor/sitara_arm_cortex_a8/am335x_arm_cortex_a8/products.page)

The AM335x chips have very basic support in F4OS.  The AM335x has no internal
flash, so F4OS must be loaded from external storage into SRAM.  F4OS runs
entirely in internal SRAM.  It currently does not initialize any external DDR
RAM.  The MMU is not used, nor are any caches enabled.

## Peripherals

### UART
UART0 supported as a standard resource.  It is hardcoded to operate at a baud
rate of 115200 and 8N1 configuration.

## Booting

The AM335x has no internal flash storage.  Instead, code is read from external
storage at boot.  Several boot sequences are available, depending on the state
of the `SYS_BOOT` pins.

When booting from MMC/SD, the processor will look for a file named `MLO` is
searched for in the first partition, which should be FAT formatted.  This file
has a special header that is described further in the AM335x TRM.

Building F4OS for the AM335x will create an `MLO` file containing F4OS in the
output directory.  Simply copy this file to the FAT-formatted first partition
of your boot device, and F4OS should boot.

Generating this file requires U-Boot's `mkimage` tool, available in many
package managers in the `u-boot-tools` or `uboot-mkimage` packages.  It can
also be built directly from the [U-Boot](http://www.denx.de/wiki/U-Boot) source:

    $ make sandbox_config       # U-Boot must be configured, pick a dummy host
    $ make tools                # Only build host tools

When `make` completes, `mkimage` should be in `tools/`.

For more information on formatting an SD card for the AM335x, see the
[LinuxLink Wiki](https://linuxlink.timesys.com/docs/gsg/beaglebone#SECTION00042000000000000000).

## Boards

F4OS officially supports, and includes defconfigs for one AM335x-based board

### BeagleBone Black

The BeagleBone Black is a popular development board for the AM3358/AM3359.
The board has 512MiB of DDR3 RAM, and 2GiB of eMMC storage.

http://beagleboard.org/Products/BeagleBone%20Black

The provided defconfig can be used to configure F4OS for the BeagleBone Black:

    $ make beaglebone_black_defconfig

#### Booting

The most common way to boot F4OS on the BeagleBone Black is to copy the `MLO`
file onto a microSD card, as described above.  Holding the Boot Switch button
when applying power will force the board to boot from SD.  The F4OS splash
should be seen on stderr.

#### Output

The BeagleBone Black defconfig sets UART0 as both stdout and stderr, at a baud
rate of 115200.  UART0 is available on the "Debug Serial Header".

More information about the serial header can be found in the BeagleBone Black
[System Reference Manual](https://github.com/CircuitCo/BeagleBone-Black/blob/master/BBB_SRM.pdf?raw=true).
